+++
title = "How Pinnacle Can Help Implement and Manage Your Cloud-Based ERP Solution"
date = "2020-11-25"
description = """Learn the differences between on-premises and Cloud-based ERP
  software, and how Pinnacle can help implement and manage your Cloud-based ERP
  solution."""
tags = [
  "cloud",
  "erp",
  "software",
  "manufacturing",
  "customer relationship management",
  "business intelligence",
  "acumatica",
  "pinnacle",
  "business"
]
canonicalURL = "https://www.pinnacle-online.com/blog/2020/november/differences-between-on-premise-and-cloud-based-erp-software"

[cover]
image = "acumatica-cloud-erp.jpg"
alt = "Picture of people using Acumatica Cloud ERP software"
+++

## What is Cloud-Based ERP Software?

Enterprise Resource Planning software, or ERP software, is one type of
business management software used by companies to collect, store, manage, and
interpret data collected from the various business activities of the company.
ERP software takes all of the data produced by the different departments in a
company and integrates the data in order to provide the information needed to
efficiently manufacture, deliver, and keep track of customer orders. 

In recent years, the use of ERP software has expanded for business
intelligence (BI) and customer relationship management (CRM).

Traditionally, ERP software has been operated by companies on-premise, on
company infrastructure. However, increasingly, companies have been moving to
cloud-based ERP software in order to lower up-front costs and the need to
manage complicated infrastructure.

With cloud-based ERP software, the ERP software vendor is responsible for the
servers, databases, and other infrastructure necessary to keep the ERP
software functioning properly. 

Acumatica is an industry leader in cloud-based ERP solutions who specializes
in manufacturing management systems.

## Benefits of Cloud-Based ERP Software

### Access to real-time data

With cloud-based ERP software, employees, contractors, and outside vendors can
access vital company data in real-time on any laptop, phone, or tablet with an
Internet connection. This is not always possible with on-premise ERP software.

### Scalability

Unlike a company using ERP software on-premise, a company using cloud-based
ERP software does not need to worry about scaling up infrastructure to
accommodate company growth. The vendor of the cloud-based ERP software takes
on full responsibility for ensuring the ERP software is running on
infrastructure with sufficient capacity to scale.

### Mobility

Because cloud-based ERP software is hosted in the cloud and not on the company
premises, there is no need to transfer over any physical hardware to a new
location should the company ever relocate. Cloud-based ERP software can be
accessed from anywhere on the globe regardless of where software is being
accessed from.

## Differences Between On-Premise and Cloud-Based ERP Software

Both cloud-based and on-premise ERP software transform data generated by the
business activities of a company into information useful for operating
efficiently.

With cloud-based ERP software, as opposed to on-premise ERP software:

- Updating ERP software is the responsibility of the software vendor. With ERP
  software on-premise, the IT department of the company bears the burden of
  making sure the ERP software is kept up to date.

- The vendor takes care of managing security, backups, and disaster recovery
  so that the company IT department can concentrate on more important and
  pressing issues.

- Implementation of the ERP software is more rapid and less costly since there
  is no need for up-front investment in enterprise-grade servers, operating
  systems, and other hardware and software.

- With a cloud-based ERP solution, all data produced by the company can be
  stored in a single database and all information can be reported on a single
  interface.

## Why are Companies Moving to Cloud-Based ERP Software?
Simply put: using cloud-based ERP software, as opposed to using on-premise ERP
software, enables companies to focus on what the company actually does, rather
than having to deal with the IT administrative overhead of maintaining
on-premise ERP software

## How Can Pinnacle Improve Your Business with Cloud-Based ERP Software?

Pinnacle has been in business for over 25 years. Over that time, Pinnacle has
successfully implemented and supported software solutions for over 1,000
customers, ranging from the implementation of simple accounting and finance
software to the implementation of cloud-based ERP solutions to manage entire
businesses.

With its highly-experienced support team, implementation team, and project
management team, Pinnacle can develop software solutions to suit the business
needs of companies of all sizes and industries.

Pinnacle takes the time to thoroughly understand the problems its customers
face in order to develop appropriate solutions and makes sure its customers
get the most out of their software solutions.

Pinnacle is an Acumatica Gold Partner and is fully-accredited to implement
Acumatica Cloud ERP Solutions to transform your company to thrive in this
dynamic digital economy. Contact Pinnacle today to learn more about
cloud-based ERP.
