+++
title = "Your Manufacturing and Distribution Company Must Digitally Transform to Remain Competitive"
date = "2020-10-26"
description = """Digital transformation makes it possible for manufacturing \
  and distribution companies to perform better analysis of existing data, \
  which can lead to increased productivity."""
tags = [
  "acumatica",
  "erp",
  "saas",
  "cloud"
]
canonicalURL = "https://www.i-techsupport.com/your-manufacturing-distribution-company-must-digitally-transform/"

[cover]
image = "robot-welding.jpeg"
alt = "Picture of a robot welding"
relative = true
+++

# Your Manufacturing and Distribution Company Must Digitally Transform to Remain Competitive

## What is Digital Transformation?

**Digital transformation** in the manufacturing and distribution industry
refers generally to the implementation of technology in order to **automate
assembly lines** and other business processes.

Additionally, digital transformation makes it possible for manufacturing and
distribution companies to perform **better analysis of existing data**, which
can lead to increased productivity.

Digital transformation of a manufacturing and distribution company will
usually incorporate several different technologies such as:

- Cloud computing
- Software-as-a-Service (Saas)
- Internet-of-Things (IoT)
- Machine learning
- Predictive analytics

By digitally transforming, manufacturing and distribution companies can
**improve their ability to adapt to and anticipate changes** affecting their
businesses.

## Why is it Necessary for Manufacturing and Distribution Companies to Digitally Transform?

It is crucial for manufacturing and distribution companies to digitally
transform in order to remain competitive in their industry.

Digital transformation makes it possible for manufacturing and distribution
companies to quickly:

- **Recognize opportunities** so they can be taken advantage of
- **Detect problems** in business processes so they can be remedied

Manufacturing and distribution companies that choose not to digitally
transform often will not be able to keep up with their competitors who do
choose to digitally transform.

Companies that do not digitally transform simply will not have the same
capability to collect and process data critical to improving business
processes.

## How i-Tech Support can help your manufacturing and distribution company digitally transform

Manufacturing and distribution companies often have to work with vendors,
logistics companies, and contractors located all over the globe. Further, in
the manufacturing and distribution industry, **decisions need to be made
promptly, but also wisely**.

Because digital transformation solutions are essential to the competitiveness
of a manufacturing and distribution company, the solutions need to be
**carefully developed and implemented**.

i-Tech Support will consult with your manufacturing and distribution company
to develop a streamlined plan to digitally transform your company.

The digital transformation plan i-Tech Support develops for your company will
incorporate the latest and most modern technologies, including implementation
of:

- **Modern cloud ERP software.** Cloud Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)
  software, such as Acumatica, is cloud-based business management
  software-as-a-service (SaaS) that allows companies to collect all of the data
  produced by various company departments into a single, centralized database.
  With data being stored in a centralized database, the data can be processed,
  analyzed, and shared in myriad ways, enabling company management to make more
  intelligent business decisions. The ERP software is hosted in the cloud,
  meaning it is accessible from anywhere in the world where an Internet
  connection is available.
- **Collaboration software.** Collaboration software, such as Microsoft Office
  365, enables company employees and contractors from all over the world to
  more easily collaborate on documents, share files, and exchange ideas.
- **Network and data security.** It is critical to secure all of the data
  being entered into and generated by your digital transformation software
  solutions. As part of your digital transformation plan, i-Tech Support will
  develop a network and data security (**cybersecurity**) solution to make sure
  your company data is accessible only to persons you grant access to.

## Contact i-Tech Support

The experts at i-Tech Support are **business leaders and industry
professionals**.

i-Tech experts are **continuously learning and training with the latest
software solutions** for manufacturing and distribution companies.

i-Tech experts understand that different businesses have different
requirements. By staying up to date with manufacturing and distribution
industry trends, i-Tech experts are able to recommend and customize software
solutions that **maximize the productivity of each of its clients**.

All i-Tech clients are **treated as partners** and as such, i-Tech works to
ensure their continuing growth and success.

As an **Acumatica Gold Certified Partner**, i-Tech Support experts are able to
tailor the powerful **Acumatica cloud-based ERP software** specifically to
meet the needs of each individual client.

i-Tech offers a large suite of IT services, including:

- Data center hosting
- Wireless network support
- Backup and disaster recovery
- Vendor management

To learn more about how i-Tech can improve the productivity and efficiency of
your company, contact an i-Tech expert today.
