+++
title = "EMC Powerlink: What EOL, EOSL, & EOS Mean for You"
date = "2020-10-15"
description = ""
tags = [
  "emc",
  "powerlink",
  "hardware",
  "data center",
  "maintenance contract",
  "reliant technology",
  "business",
  "technology"
]
canonicalURL = "https://reliant-technology.com/blog/emc-powerlink-eol-eosl-eos-what-it-means-for-your-arrays/"

[cover]
image = "man-on-laptop-in-data-center.jpg"
alt = "Picture of a man using a laptop inside of a data center"
relative = true
+++

At some point you have probably come across the acronyms EOL, EOSL, and EOS.
These acronyms concerning the lifecycle of server, network, and storage
hardware products are all related, but each of these acronyms has distinct
importance, discussed in this article.

## What does EOL, EOSL, and EOS Stand for and What is the Significance of each?

### EOL

EOL refers to “[end of
life](https://reliant-technology.com/end-of-life-information/).” EOL is
sometimes also called “end of sale” (EOS) or “end of availability” (EOA).

Specifically, EOL refers to the end of the useful life of a product being sold
by a hardware manufacturer, also known as an OEM (original equipment
manufacturer). EOL does not indicate when a product will or is expected to
fail. Rather, EOL is determined by the hardware manufacturer.

Hardware products generally reach their end of life within 3 years. Often, the
hardware manufacturer will send out notices to announce that a product is
reaching its end of life, and that a new generation of replacement products is
available to be purchased.

When a hardware product reaches its end of life, the manufacturer is no longer
actively marketing or otherwise trying to sell the product. Generally
speaking, a hardware product reaches its end of life when the manufacturer
releases a new generation of the product or when the manufacturer has replaced
the product with a new offering.

Hardware products that have reached their end of life might not be available
for purchase at all once the manufacturer runs out of its existing stock. As a
consequence of this, the product will no longer be able to be replaced with an
identical product, unless the product can be purchased new or used from a
third-party vendor.

It is important to note that hardware products reach their end of life before
reaching their end of service life. The significance of this is that the
manufacturer is still providing support for the product and the product can
still be covered by the warranty provided by the manufacturer.

### EOSL

[EOSL](https://reliant-technology.com/blog/whats-the-difference-eol-eosl-eos-eoa/)
refers to “end of service life”, or “end of support life,” or sometimes simply
“end of support” (EOS). Like [EOL,
EOSL](https://reliant-technology.com/blog/eol-eosl-difference/) is determined
by the hardware manufacturer and does not suggest when a product is no longer
expected to work.

When a hardware product reaches the EOSL determined by the manufacturer, the
manufacturer will no longer be providing first-party fixes and updates. Also,
the manufacturer oftentimes will no longer be selling support contracts for
the product.

Typically, replacement parts for a product that has reached its EOSL will
still be available from the manufacturer of the product until the existing
inventory is depleted.

Any support contracts purchased from the manufacturer will continue to remain
in effect, but might not be able to be renewed. If a support contract is able
to be renewed, it might be at a significantly increased price.

## What Options are Available to a Company once its Hardware Product has Reached its EOL or EOSL?

When a hardware product used by a company reaches its EOSL, the company has
several support options for the product to choose from.

One option is to simply continue using the product without manufacturer or
[third-party
support](https://reliant-technology.com/blog/what-is-third-party-maintenance/).
While this option might cut costs in the short-term, in the long-term, it can
prove to be a rather expensive choice. Continuing to use a product without
support can result in experiencing significant downtime or product failure.

Another option is to purchase an extended product support contract from the
original manufacturer. For many companies, this is the default support option,
without other support options being considered. However, not all manufacturers
offer extended support for products that have reached their EOSL.

Manufacturers that do offer extended support contracts typically offer the
support contracts at exorbitantly high prices, far exceeding the bounds
specified in the [IT
budget](https://reliant-technology.com/blog/it-budget-checklist/) of most
companies. Often, there is no flexibility in the length these support
contracts are offered in. In many cases, the extended product support
contracts must be purchased for durations of 6 months or more, and cannot be
extended beyond 2 years after the product has reached its EOSL.

Another option is to purchase entirely new hardware, also known as refreshing
the hardware. Considering the cost of purchasing new licenses, and the cost of
purchasing new product support contracts, this option is prohibitively
expensive for many companies.

Finally, there is the option to purchase a product support contract from a
third-party maintenance provider, also known as a TPM. If the original
manufacturer of a product that has reached its EOSL does not offer extended
support contracts, this might be the only available support option.

## What are the Benefits of using a Third-Party Maintenance Provider?

### Flexible Contracts

Third Party Maintenance support contracts are more flexible and more
affordable than OEM contracts. TPM providers do not force you into unnecessary
support that you don’t need and long term contracts.

### Savings on Hardware

Third-party maintenance providers generally offer much more affordable product
support contracts than those offered by the original manufacturer of the
product. Resulting in a cost savings of 50% to 80% over the cost of a support
contract offered by an original manufacturer.

Stay under budget and drive savings without sacrificing quality of data center
maintenance support. In fact, the service-level agreement, or SLA, is often
greater with third-party maintenance providers than with the original
manufacturers.

### Reliable Support

Third-party maintenance providers have the same ability to provide support for
EOSL products as the original manufacturer of the products.

Third-party maintenance provides a rapid service that most OEMs can’t match.
Original manufacturers might take days to deliver a replacement part,
third-party maintenance providers utilize on-site spare parts kits, which can
reduce downtime to mere minutes.

### Extend the Life of Your Hardware
Even long after a product has reached its EOSL, original parts generally are
still obtainable by third-party maintenance providers.

Unlike OEMs, third-party maintenance providers are familiar with a wide range
of products. OEMs are familiar only with their own product offerings. Since
TPM providers are familiar with a variety of products, they are able to act as
a single-point contact for support, eliminating the need to enter into support
contracts with different manufacturers.

## Why use Reliant Technology as your Third-Party Maintenance Provider?

The experts at Reliant Technology will advise you on whether or not you should
consider refreshing your products that have reached their EOSL, or if a
support contract for your products is appropriate. In many cases, a Reliant
Technology support contract is more than suitable to [extend the life of your
hardware](https://reliant-technology.com/blog/extend-the-life-of-your-network/)
and increase your [return on
investment](https://reliant-technology.com/blog/determining-roi-storage-project/).

Unlike many original manufacturers, Reliant Technology has the ability to
tailor for you a support contract that services only the specific needs of
your company, and fits within your IT budget. Reliant Technology understands
that not all companies require 24x7x365 support and that not all companies
need to be able to replace parts within hours. Reliant Technology believes
that you should not be paying for services that you will not take advantage
of.

Reliant Technology offers support contracts that are much more affordable than
original manufacturer support contracts or [refreshing your
hardware](https://reliant-technology.com/blog/refresh-your-network/).

Reliant Technology experts are familiar with a wide range of different
[server](https://reliant-technology.com/server-maintenance/),
[network](https://reliant-technology.com/network-maintenance/), and
[storage](https://reliant-technology.com/storage-maintenance/) hardware
products, and can be your single contact point for all of the product support
needs of your company.

## Contact Reliant Technology

If you would like to learn if your product has reached its EOSL, or if you
would like to start planning for when your product eventually does reach its
EOSL, contact a Reliant Technology specialist today.

Unlike original manufacturers, [Reliant
Technology](https://reliant-technology.com/home/) will not try to sell you the
latest generation of server, network, and storage products, when a support
contract is all that is required.

Reliant Technology specialists take the time to understand the specific needs
of your company and will work with you to develop a support contract that fits
within your IT budget, without cutting corners. Reliant Technology support
contracts include only the services that benefit you, saving your money.

[Contact us](https://reliant-technology.com/contact-us/) today.
