+++
title = "How A Cloud-Based ERP System Can Benefit Your Manufacturing Company"
date = "2020-12-02"
description = """Create more efficient and proactive processes within your \
  business with an effective ERP system. Learn how a cloud-based ERP \
  solution can take your company to the next level."""
tags = [
  "cloud",
  "erp",
  "software",
  "manufacturing",
  "acumatica",
  "business",
  "technology"
]
canonicalURL = "https://www.pinnacle-online.com/blog/2020/december/how-a-cloud-based-erp-system-can-benefit-your-manufacturing-company"

[cover]
image = "man-at-manufacturing-facility.jpg"
alt = "Picture of a man at a manufacturing facility"
+++

Create more efficient and proactive processes within your business with an
effective ERP system. Learn how a cloud-based ERP solution can take your
company to the next level.

## What is a cloud-based ERP system?

Cloud-based ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) software is ERP
Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) that is accessible from any device that has an
Internet connection.

Cloud-based ERP software generally has significantly lower up-front costs than
traditional ERP software on-premise. This is because there is no need to
purchase enterprise-grade servers or other hardware and software necessary to
begin using on-premise ERP software.

## What Are Some Advantages of a Cloud-Based ERP System Over an On-Premises ERP System?

### Lower costs

On-premise ERP solutions require significant up-front investments in hardware
and software such as enterprise-grade servers and operating systems in order
to start using the ERP software.

Further, there are significant ongoing costs to maintain the hardware and
software such as having to dedicate valuable IT department time to keep the
software up to date and secure. With a cloud-based ERP solution, there is no
need to purchase and maintain any hardware or software. [Avoid costly server
upgrades](https://www.pinnacle-online.com/case-studies/firewire-surfboards-acumatica-cloud-erp)
with a cloud-based ERP system.

### Accessibility

On-premise ERP solutions oftentimes cannot be accessed from outside the
company network. Cloud-based ERP solutions are much more accessible, on the
other hand, and can be accessed from any device with an Internet connection
from anywhere in the world.

### Real-time data

Cloud-based ERP software, because it can be accessed from anywhere on the
globe with an Internet-connected device, enables company employees and
contractors to always have access to real-time vital company data. On-premise
ERP, being limited to access from inside the company network only, might not
allow access to company real-time data.

### Security

With cloud-based ERP solutions, the vendor of the ERP software is solely
responsible for ensuring that the software is up-to-date and all security
fixes are being applied. With on-premises ERP solutions, it is the
responsibility of the company IT department to continuously install updates
and apply security fixes.

### Flexibility

With on-premise ERP solutions, should a company ever decide to relocate, all
of the hardware needed to operate the ERP software will need to be migrated to
the new location and set up again by the company IT department. With
cloud-based ERP solutions, there is no hardware to migrate making your company
much more adaptable.

## How Can a Cloud-Based ERP System Benefit Your Manufacturing company?
By implementing and using a [cloud-based ERP
solution](https://www.pinnacle-online.com/acumatica), your manufacturing
company can:

### Greatly increase its efficiency and productivity

Cloud-based ERP solutions take all of the data produced by the various
departments of your manufacturing company and compile it into actionable
information. This allows your company to perform better forecasting and make
better decisions, increasing efficiency and productivity.

### Reduce operational costs

By automating time-consuming processes, such as manually entering data into a
spreadsheet, cloud-based ERP solutions can reduce or eliminate administrative
and other operational costs. [Cloud-based ERP solutions increase the
visibility](https://www.pinnacle-online.com/case-studies/devils-peak-brewing-company-acumatica-cloud-erp)
of the data produced by the various departments of your manufacturing company
so that any department can know the current inventory and production rates in
real-time.

### Improve quality control

Cloud-based ERP solutions limit the impact human error can cause with quality
control. Since ERP software takes all of the data produced by your
manufacturing company and compiles it into actionable information, management
can more quickly and more easily identify and solve quality control issues.

### Scale appropriately to meet current demands

Manufacturing companies need to [scale
production](https://www.pinnacle-online.com/case-studies/international-pipe-supply-llc)
up or down to match current demands, demands that are dependent on the current
season. With cloud-based ERP solutions, actionable information is generated so
that your company can know when to adjust inventory levels and modify
production processes.

## Why should you trust Pinnacle to implement and maintain your cloud-based ERP system?

[Pinnacle](https://www.pinnacle-online.com/) has been in business for over 25
years and has successfully implemented business software solutions for over
1,000 clients. These software solutions range from simple accounting solutions
to solutions that are responsible for managing an entire business.

Pinnacle understands that not all companies benefit from the same software
solution. Accordingly, Pinnacle takes the time to understand the specific
problems each of its clients face and develops software solutions specific to
each client, making sure the client gets the most out of its software
solution.

Pinnacle is an Acumatica Gold Partner and is fully-accredited to implement
Acumatica Cloud ERP Solutions to ensure your manufacturing company operates at
its highest potential. [Contact Pinnacle
today](https://www.pinnacle-online.com/contact) to find out how a cloud-based
ERP system can improve your company.
